		       I. Installation
	            ---------------------
    
  To install do:

1. ./configure [options]
    
    For the list of available options consult INSTALL file.
    The applications-specific options are:
			      			      	
    --enable-yydebug
	Enable parser debugging. The parser debugging can be useful to
	track down errors in configuration files such as /etc/raddb/users
	and /etc/raddb/config.
	
	To enable the debugging on a given file, its first line should
	start with the following statement:
    
		#debug

	Debugging output goes to stderr or to the file
	/var/log/radius.stderr if such file exists.

    --disable-debug
	Disable debugging functions. This results in slightly more compact
    	code, but makes configuration issues difficult to debug. Use at
    	your own risk.

    --with-auth-port=NUMBER
	Specify port number to use for authentication. Default is 1645.
        The default port number for accounting is computed as auth_port + 1.

    --with-include-path=STRING
	Specify any additional include directories that are required for
	your configuration. Multiple directories are separated by colons.

    --with-lib-path=STRING
	Specify any additional library directories that are required for
	your configuration. Multiple directories are separated by
	colons.

    --enable-shadow
	Enable shadow support. Use this only if ./configure was unable to
        correctly determine if it should use the shadow support.

    --enable-pam
    	Enable PAM support.
	
    --enable-dbm[={dbm|ndbm}]
	Enable dbm support. If no argument is specified, usual DBM is
	assumed. The `ndbm' argument instructs to enable support of NDBM.
		
    --with-sql
	Enable MySQL support. Usually this requires adding appropriate
	--with-lib-path and --with-include-path options.
    
    --with-postgres
	Enable PostgreSQL support. Usually this requires adding appropriate
	--with-lib-path and --with-include-path options.

    --without-guile
	Do not compile Guile support.

    --without-server-guile
	Do not compile server Guile support

    --with-client
	Build client programs. Requires presence of Guile >=1.4 and
	PAM on your system.

    --with-pamdir=DIR
	Install PAM modules in the given DIR. Default is
    	$prefix/lib/security.

    --enable-snmp
	Enable SNMP support.

    --enable-livingston-menus
        Enable support for Livingston-compatible menus.

    --enable-deny-shell=SHELL
	Always reject users with given shell.

    --enable-osfc2
	Enable OSFC2 support.

    The following is designed for future use. Currently the Norwegian locale
    (bokmal) is being finished.

    --enable-nls
        Enable national language support. 

    --with-languages=LIST
        Set a list of languages to include in NLS.

    --with-catobjext=EXT
        Override default .po extension.

    --with-instobjext=EXT
	Override default .mo extension.

    --with-msgfmt=PROG
	Use PROG instead of msgfmt.

    --with-gnu-msgfmt=PROG
	Use PROG instead of GNU msgfmt.

2. Run make.

    The GNU make is preferred.

3. Check it

    This step is optional. It requires DejaGNU package installed
    either directly on the machine you have compiled radius on, or on 
    another machine, connected to it via network. In the simplest case,
    it will suffice to type

       make check

    For instructions on how to test radius from a remote machine, refer
    to file test/dejagnu/README.
    
4. make install

5. If you wish to install manual pages, do 

    make install-man.

    Please note, that the information in man pages is no longer being
    maintained and can therefore be inaccurate or incomplete. The
    Info files are the authoritative documentation. 

		       II. Configuring
		    --------------------

    Be sure to read accompanying documentation. If you need help,
    subscribe to <help-gnu-radius@gnu.org> and send your questions
    there. To subscribe, visit

    http://mail.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/help-gnu-radius

    Before asking a question, it is be a good idea to look through
    the mailing archives on the same page, as they might already
    contain the answer.
        
		       III. Testing.		
		    ------------------

    If you have guile version 1.4 or better installed, you can use
    radsession script to send authentication/accounting requests
    to the server. To do so, you will first need to edit your
    raddb/client.conf file. The template installed from the distribution
    should suffice to test the server in default configuration.


    1. To test authentication do

	radsession -l LOGIN -p PASSWD -P PORT-ID --auth

    2. To test accounting do

	radsession -l LOGIN -p PASSWD -P PORT-ID -s SESSION-ID --start
     or
	radsession -l LOGIN -P PORT-ID -s SESSION-ID --stop

    Here,
	LOGIN		is the user's login name
	PASSWD		is his password. Use `.' (dot) to get prompted
			for the password as passwd(1) does.
	PORT-ID		is the port number
	SESSION-ID	is a session ID (a string uniquely identifying
			the session). It can be an arbitrary string
			when used with --start option. It should be
			a session ID of a previously started session
			when used with --stop option.

    For example, supposing user `hamlet' has an entry in the users file,
    the following would authenticate it and open a session for it:

	radsession -l hamlet -p guessme -P 1 -s "0001" --start

    Now, if you run radwho, you would get something like:

     Login             Name What  TTY     When     From        Location
hamlet           hamlet      PPP  S001  Mon 07:22 localhost    255.255.255.254

    radlast shows the following;

hamlet      local    001 127.0.0.2       Thu Mon 07 07:22 - still logged in

radwtmp begins Fri Dec 01 16:36:59 2000

    Then, suppose you run:

	radsess -l hamlet -P 1 -s "0001" --stop

    This will send a stop record for session 0001. Radlast would then show
    something like:

hamlet      local    001 127.0.0.2       Thu Mon 07 07:22 - 07:25  (00:03) 

radwtmp begins Fri Dec 01 16:36:59 2000

		       IV. Bug reporting.		
                      ---------------------

    Send bug reports to bug-gnu-radius@gnu.org. 
	

Local Variables:
mode: indented-text
left-margin: 4
fill-column: 74
version-control: never
End:
